Mockups are another one that
I test when you produce more
kinda high fidelity mockups
of individual screens and
that kind of stuff sometimes
I will test those.
Really what I'm after is basically
shutting up stakeholders at this point.
Stakeholders tend to be a right pain
in the ass when you show them a design,
especially if it's a design with new or
different branding in.
So stakeholders often disagree as to
what the best visual approach is,
so I use a bit of testing basically
to break that disagreement.
Cuz you'll get one person say, I'd prefer
if it was green and another person would
say, yeah, but it can't be this shade
of green because I don't like that
shade of green because it looks horrible
and it just devolves into rubbish.
So the way I get around this
problem is right the front
of a project I tend to get into
agree on a list of brand keywords.
So these are words that represent
the brand that they wanna communicate.
So do you wanna be conservative or
liberal?
Do you wanna be friendly or formal?
Do you wanna be, whatever.
And actually there's an excellent brand
deck the physical card deck you can get or
an online tool, you can do it either,
which has got loads of words on and
they can say whether which
words they wanna be.
All right, so you get all of that out
of the way let them decide what it is.
And then essentially once I've
produced the design that hopefully
represents their words,
I'll run it through a survey.
And it's officially called
a semantic differential survey,
which I love because it sounds really
pretentious and like it's fancy.
So it must be good
personaly if it's fancy.
So but actually, it's a very simple thing,
so you upload the design to it and
you could say something like on
a scale between formal and casual,
how would you describe this design?
And then they can vote which
way they think it is and
hopefully it ties up with
whatever you've said.
And the fact that the CEO doesn't like
the color suddenly becomes less important
because we know the design
is the appropriate keywords.
I mean,
there are other ways of doing it as well.
I quite like this way where
I'll take all the words and
dump them into a list and
also words other people use.
So you'll get situations like,
they'll see the design and
they'll go, it's a bit uninspiring, right?
Let's shove the word uninspiring in there,
or it's a bit bland,
Shove the word bland in there.
And let's see whether anybody agrees
where the real users agree, right?
And of course they don't cuz we're
not incompetent at our jobs.
So, they select the right words,
not the wrong words.
And now you suddenly told
the CEO to go and show them but
without being quite so
rude about it and having some data.
Sometimes, of course,
the other option is I do a comparison,
especially if it's a very
competitive marketplace and
everybody keeps banging on
about their competitors.
Have you ever heard that?
We'd like it to be like so and so.
They do it really well, right?
Okay, yeah, let's just copy
the competition cuz you always win
in a marketplace by copying
the competition, don't you?
So I've got to the cynical and
bitter part of the day, haven't I?
I've just noticed.
[LAUGH] So essentially what I will
do in situations like that is we'll
show them our version of the website and
we'll show them the competitors
version of the website and
you'll say, which which do you
consider the most trustworthy?
Or which do you consider the most friendly
or whatever words you wanna communicate.
And hopefully they're picking my
design over the competition and
you kind of prove the point.
And again, these kinds of tests
are super easy to set up.
And the results basically speak for
themselves.
So setting them up,
you basically just upload the different
versions you ask your question.
They get to see the different versions,
you just click on the one they like, and
then you end up results like that at the
end that tells you this version is better.
And then as I said it earlier, if you
wanna get super fancy with mockups and
really wow your stakeholders and shut
them up with the whole, did they see it?
You make the logo bigger?
Why?
Cuz I'm worried people won't see it.
Well, they will.
Yeah, but I'm worried they won't, right?
Okay, fair enough.
So, in that kind of situation,
I'll either do a five
second test and
hope that people mentioned the logo.
Or alternatively,
maybe even sometimes I do eye tracking.
There you can actually do eye tracking
now with just a webcam using a service
like rely.
It's a bit of a faff, and
often times I don't bother, and
instead I use that eye tracking
simulation software I mentioned earlier,
which was called Attention Insights.
And it's enough just to kind of prove,
look at that big red
blob over the top of the logo,
we don't need to make it bigger.
So that kind of works pretty
well in most situations.
So that's how I deal with mockups.
Mockups are less of an issue in
product design, so hopefully,
you won't spend too much of your time
faffing around with that kinda thing.